## Entanglement & Implication
A statement of the question as introduction. I keep returning to abstract sites of finance, computation, and law as particular sites of entanglement, each of which is of course entangled with the others.

Entanglement has been provocatively and productively defined by Karen Barad in “Meeting the Universe Halfway: Quantum Physics and the Entanglement of Matter and Meaning.” Not only does her statement “matter and meaning are not separate elements” resonate with Flusser’s pronouncement on the essay that “there does not exist one thought that can be articulated in two ways,”[@flusser_essays_2002, 192] but her critique of critique: arguing against clear separation of subject and object, objectivity, knowledge based on such distance, etc. She introduces model of diffraction as opposed to reflection, premised on entanglement rather than distance.

Irit Rogoff’s work (around the same time as Barad’s - mid 2000s - were people feeling particularly implicated then? Iraq War, lead up to financial crisis) is very similar. It suggests moving from “critique” to “criticality” (see: “From Criticism to Critique to Criticality” or “Smuggling”) in order to “inhabit a problem rather than analyzing it.” In an interview last year Rogoff struck the same chord: “You are implicated, you are inside, you are part of it, and you can’t step aside and look at it from the perspective of critique. But you also have to understand that these very conditions are shaping you.” I am still working on getting hold of her 2004 lecture “Of Fear, Contact, Entanglement” which begins with a discussion of political borders.

Antoinette Rouvroy, one of the people I like reading most these days, writes on computation and critique, asking whether critique (and judgment) is possible within computational society. Thought she doesn’t use the word, the premise is that our systems of knowledge are increasingly entangled with computation and she explores ramifications. Intuitively I sense a parallel with Flusser’s question, “does writing have a future?” where he is really asking about the existence of writing (as historical mode of thought) in the age of programming. 

I found a couple other more recent “entanglement” analyses: “The Enlightenment is Dead, Long Live the Entanglement” (https://www.pubpub.org/pub/enlightenment-to-entanglement) focusing primarily on computation, and Dmytri Kleiner’s blog post, “CAPITAL DOESN’T AUTOMATE, IT ENTANGLES.” (http://www.dmytri.info/capital-doesnt-automate-it-entangles/) He argues that automation under capitalism does not free people from work but deskills them and makes them more dependent.